[Music]
Benjamin Franklin said a penny saved is
a penny earned and it's a good motto to
live by but I'll bet you'd agree with me
here when I say there are exceptions to
that role especially in dire situations
I'm sure you know the big billionaire
names like Jeff Bezos Mark Zuckerberg
and Bill Gates but what about Jay Paul
Getty well in case that was before your
time Getty was the richest man on earth
back in the 1960s with about 1.2 billion
dollars back then that'd be like having
almost 10 billion dollars today not bad
for 50 some years ago but the oil tycoon
wasn't only famous for his wealth but
also for his extreme penny-pinching and
the incident that sealed his position as
a legendary miser was a dark one that
was the kidnapping of his 16 year old
grandson john paul Getty the third in
1973 at the time of the incident the
free-spirited teen was living in Rome
with his father but an heir to the
world's richest man living among them
did not go unnoticed and the local media
was well aware of who he was due to his
bohemian lifestyle he was dubbed the
golden hippie by the press and was made
into a celebrity just because of his
surname on one fateful day the boy was
out buying a comic book at a newsstand
it was then when the kidnappers grabbed
him the men drove him to a cave in the
southern part of the country with the
kidnapping having gone smoothly
they issued a ransom note demanding
seventeen million dollars for the young
man safe return that would be 100
million in today's dollars when the
boy's father asked his own father for
the money he was refused the miserly
grandfather thought it was just a ploy
to extract money from it and perhaps he
was right
unfortunately these sorts of things do
happen even the boy's girlfriend said
that he had toyed with the idea of
faking his own kidnapping in order to
get money from his
grandpa but those were the days when the
young couple was struggling to make ends
meet
after they started getting modeling gigs
good sense prevailed and they dropped
the idea well all doubts of the
kidnapping being a hoax were laid to
rest when the kidnapper started making
and carrying out very real threats to
bring harm to the young man I'll spare
you the horrific details but in the end
friends Romans countrymen everybody
understood that this whole ordeal was
very real but Getty despite being a
multi billionaire still refused to pay
the ransom left with no other option
Paul's mother Gayle decided to raise
funds herself to secure the release of
her son she even talked to one of the
kidnappers on the phone who could just
not believe that this family wasn't
delivering the money how could this old
man leave his own flesh and blood in the
point that her poor son was now in they
say the abductors even started
sympathizing with their captive or maybe
they thought that their prized hostage
was proving worthless to them and their
efforts had been in vain well I guess
we'll never know
what we do know is that after five
months the old man finally relented but
only after he negotiated with the
abductors and brought the ransom down to
three million dollars seventeen million
today Getty actually agreed to hand over
no more than 2.2 million since that was
the maximum amount he could write off
his taxes he lent the remaining $800,000
to his son the boy's father at 4%
interest the teen was finally released
after the ransom was paid
once he was back home at his mother's
suggestion he tried to call his
grandfather to thank him for paying the
ransom but Jay paul Getty refused to
come to the phone he later told the
media he didn't believe in paying
kidnappers I have 14 other grandchildren
and if I pay one penny now then I'll
have 14 kidnap grandchildren is the way
he put it any way it might come as no
surprise to you that
who would negotiate with a kidnapper to
get his grandsons ransom down was pretty
notorious throughout his life for
bargaining on almost everything be it
luxury suites or buying artwork and real
estate he wouldn't purchase anything
without lowering the price first so when
he started looking to buy the gorgeous
English manor Sutton Place in Surry
County UK all for himself he was
determined to get the best deal out of
it and that's exactly what he got he
managed to buy the 72 room mansion for
about half the price that the owner had
paid 40 years earlier when he purchased
it at this point you can probably
imagine why he decided to move from the
big city to a small provincial County it
was purely financial the cost of living
at Surry was a lot cheaper than in
London even told one American columnist
that it costs ten cents for a rum and
coke in Surry whereas at the Ritz London
it was more than a dollar well yeah I'm
sure he saved a lot of money living the
country life there are tons of other
anecdotal stories about Geddes reputed
stin genus they might seem comical
ridiculous and sometimes even stranger
than fiction but that doesn't mean
they're not true his secretary claim
that Getty would wash his clothes by
hand because he didn't want to pay for
them to be laundered when his shirts
became frayed at the cuffs he'd trim the
frayed part instead of purchasing new
ones and on those rare occasions that he
did get himself some new clothes he was
miserly about that too for example he
never bought a pair of socks that cost
more than $1 reusing stationery was
another obsession of his he carefully
saved and reused manila envelopes rubber
bands and other office supplies to save
money on central heating he placed a few
electrical heaters in his sitting room
Hey
why heat a whole mansion if you're the
only one living there now I can see
where it was coming from on this one
then again why buy a whole mansion just
for yourself when Geddy took a group of
friends to a dog show in London he made
them walk around the block
for ten minutes until the tickets became
half-price at 5:00 p.m. oh but that's
not all his friends and close ones had
to endure the whole kidnapping thing
aside of course his guests would
sometimes use his home phones to make
international calls to Australia or the
US and those weren't cheap remember this
was before Skype and FaceTime were ever
a thing so giddy decided to install a
pay phone in his home for his guests
that's right to make a call they had to
pay also he placed dial locks on all the
regular phones in the mansion so that
only authorized people could use them
okay I think you really get it by now
this guy was Scrooge despite his
billions but why is that
author John Pearson attributed part of
Geddes extreme penny-pinching to his
strict upbringing which emphasised
modest living and personal economy he'd
never purchased anything unless he was
convinced that its value would increase
with time Getty claimed that his
frugality towards others was a response
to people trying to take advantage of
him and not paying their fair share well
if you can try to see it from his point
of view I guess people using you for
your money would become a growing
problem the bigger your fortune gets
still though I mean come on
but above all Getty story shows us that
money can't always bring happiness maybe
it sometimes can but certainly not
always despite all his wealth and fame
Jay paul Getty lived a solitary life he
was married and divorced five times and
despite having five sons and many
grandchildren he almost always lived
alone but it's worth mentioning that
Getty story isn't just about his brutal
thrift there's no denying that he was a
hard worker and a capable businessman at
the age of 74 when most people are
retiring and taking it easy Getty was
still working about 16 to 18 hours every
single day overseeing his operations
around the world in his last interview
which he gave a few weeks before his
passing
when asked the question what else do you
the richest man of the world want in
life he said I want to do business
further and well I guess that sums it
all up so why do you think Getty was
reluctant to pay the ransom out of
genuine concern for his other grandkids
is upbringing or just pure greed let me
know your theories down in the comments
hey if you learned something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend but hey don't go anywhere
just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life